docs/Endpoints/Shipments/DocumentStructure.md, before:

# Document structure

## `address` object attributes

| Name                | Description                  | Type     | Format                                            | Restrictions | Maximum length |
|---------------------|------------------------------|----------|---------------------------------------------------|--------------|----------------|
| `name`              | Name                         | string   | Basic Latin string with no special characters (¹) | required     | 35             |
| `address1`          | Address                      | string   | Basic Latin string with no special characters (¹) | required     | 30             |
| `address2`          | Address                      | string   | Basic Latin string with no special characters (¹) | optional     | 30             |
| `city`              | City                         | string   | Basic Latin string with no special characters (¹) | required     | 30             |
| `postalCode`        | Postal code                  | string   |                                                   | required     | 30             |
| `state`             | State / province             | string   | 2 letter ISO Alpha-2 code                         | required (⁴) | 20             |
| `country`           | Country                      | string   | 2 letter ISO Alpha-2 code                         | required     | 2              |
| `contact`           | Contact name                 | string   | Basic Latin string with no special characters (¹) | required     | 35             |
| `phone`             | Contact phone number         | number   | (⁹)(²)(³)                                         | optional     | 25             |
| `email`             | Contact email                | string   |                                                   | required (⁵) | 50             |
| `taxIdentification` | Tax / VAT number             | string   | Basic Latin string with no special characters (¹) | optional (*) | 45             |

(*) `taxIdentification` is only required for sender address in international shipments with starting point "IT" and carrier FEDEX.

## `amount` object attributes

| Name       | Description     | Type   | Format                                           | Restrictions |
|------------|-----------------|--------|--------------------------------------------------|--------------|
| `amount`   | Amount value    | number | (³)(⁶)                                           | required     |
| `currency` | Amount currency | string | Currently the only accepted value is "EUR"       | required     |

## `dimensions` object attributes

| Name     | Description      | Type   | Format                                           | Restrictions |
|----------|------------------|--------|--------------------------------------------------|--------------|
| `length` | Package length   | number | (³)(⁶)                                           | required     |
| `width`  | Package width    | number | (³)(⁶)                                           | required     |
| `height` | Package height   | number | (³)(⁶)                                           | required     |
| `units`  | Dimensions units | number | Currently the only accepted value is 1, for "KG" | required     |

## `documents` object attributes

| Name          | Description                                       | Type             | Format          |
|---------------|---------------------------------------------------|------------------|-----------------|
| `contentType` | Content-Type MIME Header                          | string           | type/subtype    |
| `fileName`    | Name of the file                                  | string           |                 |
| `fileData`    | Body of the file, encoded using the Base64 scheme | string           |                 |

## `exportDeclaration` object attributes

| Name                | Description                     | Type              | Format        | Restrictions |
|---------------------|---------------------------------|-------------------|---------------|--------------|
| `exportReasonType`  | Reason for export.              | string            | (*)           | required     |
| `invoiceDate`       | Date of invoice.                | string            | ISO 8601 Date | required     |
| `invoiceReference`  | Invoice reference.              | string            |               | required     |
| `invoiceFreight`    | Invoice freight.                | `amount` object   |               | optional     |
| `shipmentPurpose`   | Shipment purpose.               | string            | (**)          | required     |
| `lineItems`         | One or more `lineItem` objects. | `lineItem` object |               | required     |

(*) possible values:
- 'COMMERCIAL_PURPOSE_OR_SALE'
- 'DEFENCE_MATERIAL'
- 'DIPLOMATIC_GOODS'
- 'GIFT'
- 'INTERCOMPANY_USE'
- 'PERMANENT'
- 'PERSONAL_BELONGINGS_OR_PERSONAL_USE'
- 'RETURN'
- 'RETURN_TO_ORIGIN'
- 'SAMPLE'
- 'TEMPORARY'
- 'USED_EXHIBITION_GOODS_TO_ORIGIN'
- 'WARRANTY_REPLACEMENT'

(**) possible values:
- 'COMMERCIAL'
- 'PERSONAL'


## `lineItem` object attributes

| Name            | Description     | Type   | Format | Restrictions |
|-----------------|-----------------|--------|--------|--------------|
| `reference`     | Item reference. | string |        | required     |
| `productId`     | Product Id      | string |        | required     |
| `description`   | Description     | string |        | required     |
| `quantity`      | Quantity        | number | (³)(⁶) | required     |
| `unitPrice`     | Unit price      | number | (³)(⁶) | required     |
| `originCountry` | Origin country. | string |        | required     |
| `commodityCode` | HS Code         | string |        | required     |
| `unitWeight`    | Unit weight     | number | (³)(⁶) | required     |


## `package` object attributes

| Name          | Description        | Type                | Format                              | Restrictions |
|---------------|--------------------|---------------------|-------------------------------------|--------------|
| `weight`      | Package weight     | `weight` object     |                                     | required     |
| `dimensions`  | Package dimensions | `dimensions` object |                                     | required     |
| `type`        | Package type       | string              | Accepted values: 'CARTON', 'PALLET' | required     |

## `rate` object attributes

| Name                               | Type     | Notes    |
|------------------------------------|----------|----------|
| `type`                             | string   | required |
| `id`                               | string   | required |
| `attributes`                       | object   | required |
| `attributes.carrierCode`           | string   | required |
| `attributes.carrierName`           | string   | required |
| `attributes.serviceCode`           | string   | required |
| `attributes.serviceName`           | string   | required |
| `attributes.serviceDefinitionCode` | string   | required |
| `attributes.accountId`             | string   | required |
| `attributes.finalCost`             | `amount` | required |
| `attributes.estimatedDeliveryDate` | string   | optional; ISO 8601 Date; nullable |

## `shipment` object attributes

| Name                   | Description                                   | Type             | Format         | Restrictions    | Default |
|------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|------------------|----------------|-----------------|---------|
| `shipDate`             | Departure date                                | string           | ISO 8601 Date  | optional (****) |         |
| `shipFrom`             | Sender address                                | `address` object |                | required        |         |
| `collectionLocation`   | Collection location                           | `address` object |                | optional        |         |
| `shipTo`               | Receiver address                              | `address` object |                | required        |         |
| `packages`             | One or more `package` objects                 | `package` object |                | required (*)    |         |
| `goodsDescription`     | Description of items being shipped            | string           |                | required        |         |
| `insuranceDescription` | Detailed description of insured items         | string           |                | optional (**)   |         |
| `insuranceValue`       | Insured amount.                               | number           | (³)(⁶)         | optional (**)   |         |
| `invoiceSubtotal`      | Value of items being shipped                  | number           | (³)(⁶)         | required        |         |
| `customerReference`    | Customer reference (free text)                | string           |                | optional        |         |
| `specialInstructions`  | Special instructions for carrier              | string           |                | optional        |         |
| `confirmationEmail`    | Send confirmation with labels to this address | string           |                | optional        |         |
| `booking`              | Use collection booking                        | boolean          | `true`, `false` | optional       | `true`  |
| `documentsOnly`        | Ship documents instead of goods.              | boolean          | `true`, `false` | optional (^)   | `false` |

(*) except for the `/shipments/save` endpoint, where `packages` can be omitted;

(**) insurance is optional, however if one field is filled then the other must also be filled;

(****) if `shipDate` is omitted, it will be managed by the system;

(^) `documentsOnly` restrictions:
- available only for shipments that are subject to customs;
- maximum package dimensions: 30 cm x 21 cm x 15 cm;
- maximum package weight: 2.5 kg;
- unavailable fields (will be ignored): `goodsDescription`, `invoiceSubtotal`, `insuranceDescription`, `insuranceValue`;

## `shipment` object meta

| Name                  | Description                                | Type            | Format               | Restrictions                     |
|-----------------------|--------------------------------------------|-----------------|----------------------|----------------------------------|
| `carrierChoice`       | Carrier Choice (request)                   | string          | `DHL`, `POSTE_ITALIANE`, `TNT`, `UPS` | Optional, used in "one-step" endpoint |
| `carrierName`         | Carrier name                               | string          |                      | response only (⁷)                |
| `finalCost`           | Final shipment cost                        | `amount` object |                      | response only (⁷)                |
| `insuranceCost`       | Insurance finalCost                        | `amount` object |                      | response only (⁷)                |
| `rate`                | Shipment rate to use when confirming       | `rate` object   |                      | required for confirm endpoint    |
| `reference`           | Reference number (used in the Client area) | string          |                      | response only (⁷)                |
| `scheduledProcessing` | Scheduled processing option                | boolean         | `true`, `false`      | (*)
| `service`             | Shipment service choice (request)          | string          | `express`, `economy` | required for "one-step" endpoint |
| `status`              | Shipment status code                       | integer         | `-1`, `0`, `3`       | response only                    |
| `trackingNumber`      | Tracking number                            | string          |                      | response only (⁷)                |

#### (*) `scheduledProcessing`

Used only in the "one-step" endpoint;

##### `true`

* default option;
* shipment processing is asynchronous;
* separate call needed in order to obtain the result of shipment processing;
* response code `202 Accepted`;

##### `false`

* shipment processing is done immediately and result is returned in the response;
* response code `202 Created`;
* response time can be longer as a result of the processing overhead;

### Shipment status codes

| Code | Description                  |
|------|------------------------------|
| `-1` | Error                        |
|  `0` | Saved (pending confirmation) |
|  `3` | Shipment is confirmed        |

## `shipment` object links (response only)

| Name       | Description             | Type   | Format                   | Restrictions      |
|------------|-------------------------|--------|--------------------------|-------------------|
| `self`     | Shipment resource URL   | string | `<apiURL>/shipments<id>` | response only     |
| `tracking` | External tracking URL   | string |                          | response only (⁸) |

## `tracking` object attributes

| Name                | Description                                | Type               |
|---------------------|--------------------------------------------|--------------------|
| `carrierShipmentId` | Tracking number                            | string             |
| `trackingHash`      | Tracking hash code (*)                     | string             |
| `trackingStatus`    | Status of latest tracking event (**)        | integer (nullable) |
| `trackingDate`      | Date and time of latest tracking event     | string (nullable)  |

### (*) `trackingHash`

The hash code can be used to generate the tracking link. The format is: `https://tracking.qapla.it/<trackingHash>`.

### (**) `trackingStatus`

For complete information about the tracking status code please see [Qapla' documentation](https://webhook.qapla.dev/en/#qaplaStatus).

## `weight` object attributes

| Name    | Description  | Type   | Format                                           | Restrictions |
|---------|--------------|--------|--------------------------------------------------|--------------|
| `value` | Weight value | number | (³)(⁶)                                           | required     |
| `units` | Weight units | number | Currently the only accepted value is 1, for "KG" | required     |

---

### Notes

(¹) Data containing special characters will be converted;

(²) For `US`, `phone` should start with 1 and contain 11 digits;

(³) Numbers containing non-numeric characters will be rejected; Please make sure to use the point (`.`) as decimal separator;

(⁴) `state` is required only for the following countries: IT, CA, US;

(⁵) `email` is required for the `shipFrom` address;

(⁶) Any value using a fractional part must use a period as the decimal separator;

(⁷) This field is only returned for completed shipments, otherwise the value is `null`;

(⁸) This field is only returned for completed shipments, otherwise the field is not present in the response;

(⁹) Non numeric values will be discarded.

---

[README](../../../README.md)

Commit message:

Add support for additional address object fields: `isResidential`, `taxIdentification`;

docs/Endpoints/Shipments/DocumentStructure.md, after:

# Document structure

## `address` object attributes

| Name                | Description                  | Type     | Format                                            | Restrictions | Maximum length |
|---------------------|------------------------------|----------|---------------------------------------------------|--------------|----------------|
| `name`              | Name                         | string   | Basic Latin string with no special characters (¹) | required     | 35             |
| `address1`          | Address                      | string   | Basic Latin string with no special characters (¹) | required     | 30             |
| `address2`          | Address                      | string   | Basic Latin string with no special characters (¹) | optional     | 30             |
| `city`              | City                         | string   | Basic Latin string with no special characters (¹) | required     | 30             |
| `postalCode`        | Postal code                  | string   |                                                   | required     | 30             |
| `state`             | State / province             | string   | 2 letter ISO Alpha-2 code                         | required (⁴) | 20             |
| `country`           | Country                      | string   | 2 letter ISO Alpha-2 code                         | required     | 2              |
| `contact`           | Contact name                 | string   | Basic Latin string with no special characters (¹) | required     | 35             |
| `phone`             | Contact phone number         | number   | (⁹)(²)(³)                                         | optional     | 25             |
| `email`             | Contact email                | string   |                                                   | required (⁵) | 50             |
| `isResidential`     | Address is not for a company | boolean  |                                                   | optional     |                |
| `taxIdentification` | Tax / VAT number             | string   | Basic Latin string with no special characters (¹) | optional (*) | 45             |

(*) `taxIdentification` is only required for sender address in international shipments with starting point "IT" and carrier FEDEX.

## `amount` object attributes

| Name       | Description     | Type   | Format                                           | Restrictions |
|------------|-----------------|--------|--------------------------------------------------|--------------|
| `amount`   | Amount value    | number | (³)(⁶)                                           | required     |
| `currency` | Amount currency | string | Currently the only accepted value is "EUR"       | required     |

## `dimensions` object attributes

| Name     | Description      | Type   | Format                                           | Restrictions |
|----------|------------------|--------|--------------------------------------------------|--------------|
| `length` | Package length   | number | (³)(⁶)                                           | required     |
| `width`  | Package width    | number | (³)(⁶)                                           | required     |
| `height` | Package height   | number | (³)(⁶)                                           | required     |
| `units`  | Dimensions units | number | Currently the only accepted value is 1, for "KG" | required     |

## `documents` object attributes

| Name          | Description                                       | Type             | Format          |
|---------------|---------------------------------------------------|------------------|-----------------|
| `contentType` | Content-Type MIME Header                          | string           | type/subtype    |
| `fileName`    | Name of the file                                  | string           |                 |
| `fileData`    | Body of the file, encoded using the Base64 scheme | string           |                 |

## `exportDeclaration` object attributes

| Name                | Description                     | Type              | Format        | Restrictions |
|---------------------|---------------------------------|-------------------|---------------|--------------|
| `exportReasonType`  | Reason for export.              | string            | (*)           | required     |
| `invoiceDate`       | Date of invoice.                | string            | ISO 8601 Date | required     |
| `invoiceReference`  | Invoice reference.              | string            |               | required     |
| `invoiceFreight`    | Invoice freight.                | `amount` object   |               | optional     |
| `shipmentPurpose`   | Shipment purpose.               | string            | (**)          | required     |
| `lineItems`         | One or more `lineItem` objects. | `lineItem` object |               | required     |

(*) possible values:
- 'COMMERCIAL_PURPOSE_OR_SALE'
- 'DEFENCE_MATERIAL'
- 'DIPLOMATIC_GOODS'
- 'GIFT'
- 'INTERCOMPANY_USE'
- 'PERMANENT'
- 'PERSONAL_BELONGINGS_OR_PERSONAL_USE'
- 'RETURN'
- 'RETURN_TO_ORIGIN'
- 'SAMPLE'
- 'TEMPORARY'
- 'USED_EXHIBITION_GOODS_TO_ORIGIN'
- 'WARRANTY_REPLACEMENT'

(**) possible values:
- 'COMMERCIAL'
- 'PERSONAL'


## `lineItem` object attributes

| Name            | Description     | Type   | Format | Restrictions |
|-----------------|-----------------|--------|--------|--------------|
| `reference`     | Item reference. | string |        | required     |
| `productId`     | Product Id      | string |        | required     |
| `description`   | Description     | string |        | required     |
| `quantity`      | Quantity        | number | (³)(⁶) | required     |
| `unitPrice`     | Unit price      | number | (³)(⁶) | required     |
| `originCountry` | Origin country. | string |        | required     |
| `commodityCode` | HS Code         | string |        | required     |
| `unitWeight`    | Unit weight     | number | (³)(⁶) | required     |


## `package` object attributes

| Name          | Description        | Type                | Format                              | Restrictions |
|---------------|--------------------|---------------------|-------------------------------------|--------------|
| `weight`      | Package weight     | `weight` object     |                                     | required     |
| `dimensions`  | Package dimensions | `dimensions` object |                                     | required     |
| `type`        | Package type       | string              | Accepted values: 'CARTON', 'PALLET' | required     |

## `rate` object attributes

| Name                               | Type     | Notes    |
|------------------------------------|----------|----------|
| `type`                             | string   | required |
| `id`                               | string   | required |
| `attributes`                       | object   | required |
| `attributes.carrierCode`           | string   | required |
| `attributes.carrierName`           | string   | required |
| `attributes.serviceCode`           | string   | required |
| `attributes.serviceName`           | string   | required |
| `attributes.serviceDefinitionCode` | string   | required |
| `attributes.accountId`             | string   | required |
| `attributes.finalCost`             | `amount` | required |
| `attributes.estimatedDeliveryDate` | string   | optional; ISO 8601 Date; nullable |

## `shipment` object attributes

| Name                   | Description                                   | Type             | Format         | Restrictions    | Default |
|------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|------------------|----------------|-----------------|---------|
| `shipDate`             | Departure date                                | string           | ISO 8601 Date  | optional (****) |         |
| `shipFrom`             | Sender address                                | `address` object |                | required        |         |
| `collectionLocation`   | Collection location                           | `address` object |                | optional        |         |
| `shipTo`               | Receiver address                              | `address` object |                | required        |         |
| `packages`             | One or more `package` objects                 | `package` object |                | required (*)    |         |
| `goodsDescription`     | Description of items being shipped            | string           |                | required        |         |
| `insuranceDescription` | Detailed description of insured items         | string           |                | optional (**)   |         |
| `insuranceValue`       | Insured amount.                               | number           | (³)(⁶)         | optional (**)   |         |
| `invoiceSubtotal`      | Value of items being shipped                  | number           | (³)(⁶)         | required        |         |
| `customerReference`    | Customer reference (free text)                | string           |                | optional        |         |
| `specialInstructions`  | Special instructions for carrier              | string           |                | optional        |         |
| `confirmationEmail`    | Send confirmation with labels to this address | string           |                | optional        |         |
| `booking`              | Use collection booking                        | boolean          | `true`, `false` | optional       | `true`  |
| `documentsOnly`        | Ship documents instead of goods.              | boolean          | `true`, `false` | optional (^)   | `false` |

(*) except for the `/shipments/save` endpoint, where `packages` can be omitted;

(**) insurance is optional, however if one field is filled then the other must also be filled;

(****) if `shipDate` is omitted, it will be managed by the system;

(^) `documentsOnly` restrictions:
- available only for shipments that are subject to customs;
- maximum package dimensions: 30 cm x 21 cm x 15 cm;
- maximum package weight: 2.5 kg;
- unavailable fields (will be ignored): `goodsDescription`, `invoiceSubtotal`, `insuranceDescription`, `insuranceValue`;

## `shipment` object meta

| Name                  | Description                                | Type            | Format               | Restrictions                     |
|-----------------------|--------------------------------------------|-----------------|----------------------|----------------------------------|
| `carrierChoice`       | Carrier Choice (request)                   | string          | `DHL`, `POSTE_ITALIANE`, `TNT`, `UPS` | Optional, used in "one-step" endpoint |
| `carrierName`         | Carrier name                               | string          |                      | response only (⁷)                |
| `finalCost`           | Final shipment cost                        | `amount` object |                      | response only (⁷)                |
| `insuranceCost`       | Insurance finalCost                        | `amount` object |                      | response only (⁷)                |
| `rate`                | Shipment rate to use when confirming       | `rate` object   |                      | required for confirm endpoint    |
| `reference`           | Reference number (used in the Client area) | string          |                      | response only (⁷)                |
| `scheduledProcessing` | Scheduled processing option                | boolean         | `true`, `false`      | (*)
| `service`             | Shipment service choice (request)          | string          | `express`, `economy` | required for "one-step" endpoint |
| `status`              | Shipment status code                       | integer         | `-1`, `0`, `3`       | response only                    |
| `trackingNumber`      | Tracking number                            | string          |                      | response only (⁷)                |

#### (*) `scheduledProcessing`

Used only in the "one-step" endpoint;

##### `true`

* default option;
* shipment processing is asynchronous;
* separate call needed in order to obtain the result of shipment processing;
* response code `202 Accepted`;

##### `false`

* shipment processing is done immediately and result is returned in the response;
* response code `202 Created`;
* response time can be longer as a result of the processing overhead;

### Shipment status codes

| Code | Description                  |
|------|------------------------------|
| `-1` | Error                        |
|  `0` | Saved (pending confirmation) |
|  `3` | Shipment is confirmed        |

## `shipment` object links (response only)

| Name       | Description             | Type   | Format                   | Restrictions      |
|------------|-------------------------|--------|--------------------------|-------------------|
| `self`     | Shipment resource URL   | string | `<apiURL>/shipments<id>` | response only     |
| `tracking` | External tracking URL   | string |                          | response only (⁸) |

## `tracking` object attributes

| Name                | Description                                | Type               |
|---------------------|--------------------------------------------|--------------------|
| `carrierShipmentId` | Tracking number                            | string             |
| `trackingHash`      | Tracking hash code (*)                     | string             |
| `trackingStatus`    | Status of latest tracking event (**)        | integer (nullable) |
| `trackingDate`      | Date and time of latest tracking event     | string (nullable)  |

### (*) `trackingHash`

The hash code can be used to generate the tracking link. The format is: `https://tracking.qapla.it/<trackingHash>`.

### (**) `trackingStatus`

For complete information about the tracking status code please see [Qapla' documentation](https://webhook.qapla.dev/en/#qaplaStatus).

## `weight` object attributes

| Name    | Description  | Type   | Format                                           | Restrictions |
|---------|--------------|--------|--------------------------------------------------|--------------|
| `value` | Weight value | number | (³)(⁶)                                           | required     |
| `units` | Weight units | number | Currently the only accepted value is 1, for "KG" | required     |

---

### Notes

(¹) Data containing special characters will be converted;

(²) For `US`, `phone` should start with 1 and contain 11 digits;

(³) Numbers containing non-numeric characters will be rejected; Please make sure to use the point (`.`) as decimal separator;

(⁴) `state` is required only for the following countries: IT, CA, US;

(⁵) `email` is required for the `shipFrom` address;

(⁶) Any value using a fractional part must use a period as the decimal separator;

(⁷) This field is only returned for completed shipments, otherwise the value is `null`;

(⁸) This field is only returned for completed shipments, otherwise the field is not present in the response;

(⁹) Non numeric values will be discarded.

---

[README](../../../README.md)
