docs/ContentType.md, before:

# Content type

The ParcelValue API uses the `JSON API` content type.

> JSON API is a specification for how a client should request that resources be fetched or modified, and how a server should respond to those requests.  
> JSON API requires use of the JSON API media type (`application/vnd.api+json`) for exchanging data.

Any call to the API needs to send the proper `Content-Type` and `Accept` headers.

Request content data should follow the `JSON API` specification.

The currently supported JSON API version is `1.0`.

For more information please visit [JSON:API &mdash; A specification for building APIs in JSON](https://jsonapi.org/).

## Identification

For any resource object, the `id` member is generated by the API server on resource creation.

## Examples

An example of the structure of a request data for the `/shipments` endpoint would be:

```
{
    "jsonapi": {
        "version": "1.0"
    },
    "data": {
        "type": "shipment",
        "attributes": {
            "shipDate": "2018-12-01",
            "shipFrom": {
                "name" : "Sender Name",
                "address1": "Sender street 123",
                "city": "Milano",
                "postalCode": 20129,
                "state": "MI",
                "country": "IT",
                "contact": "Sender Contactname",
                "phone": "1234567890",
                "email": "sender@ship.from"
            },
            "shipTo": {
                "name" : "Receiver Name",
                "address1": "Receiver address 123",
                "city": "Muenchen",
                "postalCode": 80331,
                "country": "DE",
                "contact": "Receiver Contactname",
                "phone": "987654321",
                "email": "receiver@ship.to"
            },
            "packages": [{
                "weight": {
                    "value": "1.2",
                    "units": "1"
                },
                "dimensions": {
                    "length": "32",
                    "width": "33",
                    "height": "34",
                    "units": "1"
                },
                "type": "CARTON"
            },
            {
                "weight": {
                    "value": "1.9",
                    "units": "1"
                },
                "dimensions": {
                    "length": "32",
                    "width": "33",
                    "height": "34",
                    "units": "1"
                },
                "type": "CARTON"
            }],
            "goodsDescription": "Items from order #1",
            "insuranceDescription": "Testers",
            "insuranceValue": "123.45",
            "invoiceSubtotal": {
                "amount": "13.69",
                "currency": "EUR"
            },
            "customerReference": "REF 123",
            "specialInstructions": "Second door on the left",
            "confirmationEmail": "documents@ship.from",
            "booking": true
        },
        "meta": {
            "scheduledProcessing": true,
            "service": "express"
        }
    }
}
```

Please see https://jsonapi.org for more information.

---

[README](../README.md)

Commit message:

Add JSON data type notes

docs/ContentType.md, after:

# Content type

The ParcelValue API uses the `JSON API` content type.

> JSON API is a specification for how a client should request that resources be fetched or modified, and how a server should respond to those requests.  
> JSON API requires use of the JSON API media type (`application/vnd.api+json`) for exchanging data.

Any call to the API needs to send the proper `Content-Type` and `Accept` headers.

Request content data should follow the `JSON API` specification.

The currently supported JSON API version is `1.0`.

For more information on JSON API please visit [JSON:API &mdash; A specification for building APIs in JSON](https://jsonapi.org/).

For more information on JSON data types please visit [JSON Data Types](https://restfulapi.net/json-data-types/).

## Identification

For any resource object, the `id` member is generated by the API server on resource creation.

## Examples

An example of the structure of a request data for the `/shipments` endpoint would be:

```
{
    "jsonapi": {
        "version": "1.0"
    },
    "data": {
        "type": "shipment",
        "attributes": {
            "shipDate": "2018-12-01",
            "shipFrom": {
                "name" : "Sender Name",
                "address1": "Sender street 123",
                "city": "Milano",
                "postalCode": 20129,
                "state": "MI",
                "country": "IT",
                "contact": "Sender Contactname",
                "phone": "1234567890",
                "email": "sender@ship.from"
            },
            "shipTo": {
                "name" : "Receiver Name",
                "address1": "Receiver address 123",
                "city": "Muenchen",
                "postalCode": 80331,
                "country": "DE",
                "contact": "Receiver Contactname",
                "phone": "987654321",
                "email": "receiver@ship.to"
            },
            "packages": [{
                "weight": {
                    "value": "1.2",
                    "units": "1"
                },
                "dimensions": {
                    "length": "32",
                    "width": "33",
                    "height": "34",
                    "units": "1"
                },
                "type": "CARTON"
            },
            {
                "weight": {
                    "value": "1.9",
                    "units": "1"
                },
                "dimensions": {
                    "length": "32",
                    "width": "33",
                    "height": "34",
                    "units": "1"
                },
                "type": "CARTON"
            }],
            "goodsDescription": "Items from order #1",
            "insuranceDescription": "Testers",
            "insuranceValue": "123.45",
            "invoiceSubtotal": {
                "amount": "13.69",
                "currency": "EUR"
            },
            "customerReference": "REF 123",
            "specialInstructions": "Second door on the left",
            "confirmationEmail": "documents@ship.from",
            "booking": true
        },
        "meta": {
            "scheduledProcessing": true,
            "service": "express"
        }
    }
}
```

Please see https://jsonapi.org for more information.

---

[README](../README.md)
